- We all know the dangers
that lurk outside our gates.
But under the protection
of our Dhampir Guardians,
we are safe.
The future of the Dragomir
family is in your hands.
Lissa, as your godfather,
I promised your family I would
always look out for you.
Spirit use is real.
This feels dangerous.
Maybe compulsion
is just the start
of what Spirit Users can do.
Rose is one of our best
Guardian Novices,
but she's a handful.
Will you teach me?
Rose saw through my eyes.
I feel like you've always been
pretty tuned into me.
But this feels different somehow.
Novices, the benchmark tests
are simulated surprise attacks.
A way forward
has been suggested.
The only way
to test a Novice's acumen
is by confronting them
with a real Strigoi.
- It's too dangerous.
- Always be ready.
- Move it, Novice.
Congratulations.
You five represent the Novices
who exemplify the acumen
fit for our Guardian ranks.
Your objective is
to escort a Moroi Royal
to a predetermined location
and secure it by sundown.
You will then keep
your charge alive
by any means.
At nightfall, Bravo Team
will enter the field
and come for you
and your charge.
If your patch is popped
by Bravo Team, you fail.
If your Royal's patch
is popped, you all fail.
If you survive Bravo Team's
onslaught tonight,
we'll see you
on the Royal Tour.
In lieu of having
an actual Moroi in the field,
one of you will be assigned
the role.
Rose, since you're
atop the rankings,
I'm making you team leader
and leaving the decision
to you.
Team leader? Me?
But what about--
- Decision's made.
Putting Rose in charge
of protecting
anyone not named Lissa
isn't gonna end well.
Maybe you should just
flunk us all now.
Heavy is the head, Hathaway.
You want to be
Vasilissa's guardian?
Leading your team to victory
is a hell of a way
to make your case.
Everything you need
is in these rucksacks.
Get changed and get going.
Good luck.
Novices, pa-shon!
Well, that's a great start.
I'm good.
Probably could have done
without that fifth pint.
Yeah, no shit.
Here.
Hydrate.
Looks like we're heading
to a structure
a few hours away.
Herk, you're with me
on near guard.
And Dean, you're on far rear.
Meredith, navigate
and take far front.
I knew I shouldn't
have come back early.
And Eddie, you're our Moroi.
Why me?
Last I checked, I'm higher
in the rankings than they are.
You're also the youngest,
with the least amount
of field training.
Now, we've got a lot
of ground to cover
and not enough daylight
to do it in.
So get dressed
and let's get going.
Come on!
Out with you.
All right, let him go.
Come on!
Move it.
You're one ugly bastard,
aren't you?
It's like a drug, isn't it?
- Andre.
- The search for answers.
You're not real.
You're just part
of the Darkness.
You can't run from me,
you know.
Stop it.
The Darkness will
always find you
and twist away at your insides
until you remember!
Leave me alone!
Sandovsky's Syndrome?
That's terminal.
This is a fucking joke, right?
Can you please say something?
How long do we have?
Not long enough.
- Dad--
- Absolutely not.
I can heal him.
Heal, not cure.
The toll it would take
would be too great.
You know that.
Sonya, if anything like that
were to happen again--
Apologies for interrupting
at such an hour, Victor, but...
I'm afraid I made
a terrible mistake.
What you've done
is unconscionable!
Reprehensible!
It is not who we are
or what we stand for!
- Here, here.
- What we stand for, Victor,
is the well-being of the Moroi.
To what end?
Destroying the relationship
between the Council
and the Dhampir community?
We have an obligation
to everyone,
not just the Moroi.
- Yes.
We have never,
ever willingly put
innocent lives in jeopardy.
And with our numbers
so low already--
They are not innocent.
They are Dhampirs.
Their mere existence puts
their life in jeopardy.
And we must demand
both quality and quantity
if we are to breed a more
capable line of Guardians.
Yes.
If your position is that
our top Novices
are so ill-prepared
they can't defend themselves
from a single Strigoi,
then you are only further
making our case for us.
My God,
you're a fucking monster.
Now, I understand your fears
after the losses at St. Jude's,
but I promise you,
if this council is unwilling
to see reason, I will--
I'd be extremely careful
what you say or do next, Victor.
The Queen is aware
of the situation.
To act against
the will of the Council
is to act against her will
and would thus
be considered treason.
The Queen may be aware of this,
but she can't be for it.
I propose an emergency motion
to rescind the vote.
Not without a 2/3 majority,
as I'm sure you are aware.
Tatiana,
please don't speak to me
as if I haven't been doing this
long before your fangs dropped.
Now, if you don't mind,
the adults are talking.
Fine.
All in favor
of Victor's motion?
All opposed?
The nays have it.
Rose.
Rose, I'm tired.
We can't stop.
But I'm so hungry.
I won't be caught dead
eating food so pedestrian.
I demand my feeder.
Do you know who my father is?
Know your place, Guardian.
Eddie, I swear.
Just eat it and shut up
before I kick your teeth in.
Still not quite sure
I get what Mason sees in you.
You really must not
want your teeth.
I'm just saying,
you're rough around the edges
and a bit prickly.
But Mason seems to worship you.
I never asked anyone
to worship me.
You don't know how love works,
do you?
Mason's not in love with me.
The hell he's not.
Mind your own.
He's just
a really good guy, Rose.
So fly that kite straight
or cut him loose,
'cause you've got him
twisted in knots.
Appreciate
the unsolicited advice,
but that's
a really bad metaphor.
Hey, Meredith?
There are wards set up
around the training areas, right?
Yeah. Why?
Nothing.
Let's keep going.
Sorry to hear about this.
Your dad is one
of the good ones, you know.
Sorry.
You have to work,
and I'm sitting here
talking your ear off.
After last night,
I wouldn't have blamed you
if you needed a minute.
It was... kind of intense.
No, no, no.
It was good intense.
Come on.
I like dissecting cadavers
and singing old Moroi opera
in the shower, okay?
Normal is boring.
Normal can kiss
my Strigoi-smelling,
opera-singing arse.
You are everything
that I've ever hoped for,
and then some.
And I'm completely here for it.
Thank you.
I'll see you tonight, okay?
I'll swing by when I'm done.
Captain.
Status?
The trackers in the squibs
have Alpha Team arriving
to their objective
in less than an hour
with about 45 minutes to spare
until sunset.
Bravo Team arrived in the area
about 15 minutes ago
and are setting up base camp.
Alberta.
A word, please?
Dimitri, you as well.
- Give us the room.
- Yes, ma'am.
Everyone clear out.
Very quietly, I need you
to call off the field test
and bring everyone in.
- Impossible.
They went radio silent
when they arrived on site.
Then send someone
to retrieve them.
What's going on?
The Royal Council
has approved live fire.
I'll gather a unit.
Stand down, Dimitri.
That is an order, Guardian.
May I remind you that the will
of the Royal Council
is absolute?
Our duty is to protect
the Moroi and the Academy,
not to coddle our own.
You knew about this.
As of 15 minutes ago.
But your fight, Lord Dashkov,
is with the Council.
We follow their orders.
If you're willing
to risk treason,
you will face
the consequences alone.
- Dimitri--
- Dimitri will do as he's told.
Do the Guardians
out there know?
How could you?
- Don't fucking lecture me.
I have no choice.
I do what I'm told.
You should really have
more faith in Rose's abilities,
especially considering
all the extra training
you've been providing her.
They can handle it.
She can handle it.
If she can't, Bravo Team will.
Take a quick breather.
Well, this certainly isn't
the accommodation
I was expecting.
Never seen a human church
in person before.
Do you think they know
anything about us
or St. Vladimir?
I hope not.
We don't need their shit
spilling over into our shit.
I don't know.
Human shit's kind of my thing.
That doesn't sound
the way you think it does.
It does explain
her bad taste,
if her crush on Mia
wasn't enough.
There's a heart in there,
if you dig around a bit.
Well, what can I say?
I like what I like.
I'm gonna walk the perimeter,
try to strategize a defense.
Don't bother.
By the time you see
Bravo Team coming,
it'll be too late.
- You noticed that too.
It's hard not to
when you're standing
at the bottom of a bowl.
Can I see that map
for a second?
Maybe this is part of the test.
To see if we're
dumb enough to stay
in an indefensible location.
There's another structure here.
If we leave now,
we can make it by sunset.
It's doable,
and it's close enough
to set up a communication relay
to keep an eye on this area.
One more thing.
Alberta said to survive
by any means necessary.
They can't fail us
if there's no patches to pop.
See?
She gets it.
Overturning
the Council's decision
would set a dangerous precedent
in the transition of power.
This is not
an ordinary circumstance
nor an ordinary transition
of power, Your Majesty.
I will not incite
political upheaval
even for you.
If you are so troubled by it,
perhaps you should finally
consider running for the throne
instead of clinging
to its coattails.
Are we done?
Your Majesty.
Why the sudden interest
in the Moroi art of yore?
I--art's kind of always
been my happy place.
Yeah.
Rose and I had this plan,
after graduation,
we'd go on this crazy
worldwide art crawl.
I've met the collector
who donated this piece.
It's a shame you won't be
joining us in the Royal Tour.
He's a lot, but he knows
how to throw a party.
Tradition's tradition,
I guess.
No quorum, no Royal Tour,
although you must know that.
Given your detailed awareness
of the law.
What I do know is that
you should have the right
to choose a spouse
when you're ready,
not because Victor Dashkov
is desperate for votes.
He just wants
what's best for me.
If that were true,
he would have found a way
to prevent a Strigoi from being
released on your friends
out playing
their little war games.
This location
will definitely work.
Bravo Team won't
suspect a thing.
Dean, you'll be midpoint
of the relay.
Herk, you keep watch
over the church.
You see anything,
you signal Dean.
I'll stand by first guard here.
Two flashes,
and I come running.
Stay low, stay quiet.
- Got it.
We can do this.
I know we can.
Now that was leadery.
Not bad, Hathaway.
Not bad yourself, Beckham.
Prayers won't help Rose,
but you can.
Look, I agree this is fucked,
but what you want to do
is insane.
Running out into the field?
How would you defend yourself?
Because I don't think
compelling a Strigoi to death
is gonna work.
Well, it's better
than not trying at all.
I need you.
You have a handle on your magic
that's more than just
some stupid party trick.
I have to warn Rose.
You just told Dimitri.
Well, what if he doesn't
find them in time?
Or what if the Strigoi
find them first?
If the situation were reversed,
Rose wouldn't hesitate
to come for me.
That's what she's been
trained to do,
An argument I see now
holds no weight with you.
Ugh,
Rose is gonna kick my ass
for letting you do this.
Let's get her
and everyone home safely
so she can do just that.
But they're offsite.
How we gonna get there?
Got it covered.
You're not gonna like it,
but it's handled.
* We are the future ♪
♪ We are the now ♪
A wannabe royal, a Dhamp,
and a sad little outcast.
That's as low as a peanut
gallery as there ever was.
And yet we still have
people we care about
that are worth saving.
What's your excuse for being
such a lonely asshole?
Feel free to get out
and walk at any time,
preferably while
the car is moving, then.
And last I checked,
it was the responsibility
of the Guardians
to protect the Moroi,
not the other way around,
just in case you've forgotten.
You could have just said no, okay?
You didn't have
to come with us.
Well, when the last Dragomir
comes knocking,
you answer, right?
Who knows?
You might find a way
to make it up to me.
Ah, come on, Lissa.
There are far worse Moroi
to fuck to erase a debt.
Such a perv.
Just shut up
and drive, Jesse.
Hey, hang the next right.
I think I know where they are.
Okay, big man.
You should watch your six.
Hey.
Look what we caught.
Should we throw it back?
I'm just here to grade
your defense strategy
for Bravo Team,
but it looks like you guys
have it well in hand.
I'm impressed, Rose,
though I should warn you
some of the Guardians
are chomping at the bit
to one-up
Janine Hathaway's daughter.
I'm ready.
Well, it's not good enough
to just be ready.
Show them that you're not
Janine Hathaway's daughter.
Show them that she's
Rose Hathaway's mum.
'Cause I've got 1,000 mirs
riding on it.
Which I'd happily split
with you.
- Deal.
- Mm.
And I won't give you shit
that you've taken
the easy job in all of this.
You've got this, Rose.
And don't worry,
your super-secret
defense strategy
is safe with me.
Now I have a date to get to.
That's a pretty melody.
It's from an Old Moroi opera.
Since when do you like opera?
Alpha Team is in position.
Bravo Team, do you copy?
What the fuck?
Hey.
Your Majesty.
These interruptions
are getting tiresome, Victor.
Vasilissa Dragomir
was seen leaving
the palace grounds along
with a few other students.
Care to guess
where they were headed?
- On whose authority?
- My guess is their own.
Please, I implore you.
Stop the test.
You are the only one
with the power
to take emergency measures
and overturn
the Council's decision.
Who else was with her?
Jesse Zeklos,
Christian Ozera,
Mason Ashford,
and my daughter.
Hey, stop!
What are you doing?
Where's Rose?
Lissa,
what are you doing here?
There's a Strigoi
loose in the area.
They set it free.
- Whoa, whoa, slow down.
You're not making any sense.
They put a Strigoi
out here with you guys.
What? Bullshit.
- No, it's true.
- Shit.
That doesn't make any sense.
Why would they do that?
- I don't know, but it's true.
- Whoa, whoa.
How do you know that?
- I just do.
Look, Mia and Jesse are
waiting in the car,
but we have to warn
the instructors.
Mia's here.
- Meredith!
- Wait, Rose!
We have to warn the others.
But we don't know
where the instructors are.
How the hell
did you even find us?
- I know how you think, Rose.
- Good.
Then help me figure out
what I would do next.
You'd have Dean go get Herk,
but we already did that.
He said to wait in there.
Okay, let's go.
Come, come, come.
Herk! Herk!
We gotta go.
Herk?
What's taking them so long?
Mia.
Mia, what the hell
are you doing here?
You shouldn't have come.
I was worried.
Aww, I hate to break up
this love fest or whatever,
but where's the rest
of your merry band?
I skipped breakfast
coming out here,
and I'm starving.
I need to feed.
Did you miss
your nap today, Zeklos?
Okay.
Well, this was fun.
Um, I think I'm gonna go now.
Feel free to enjoy
the rest of this shit show
or, I don't know, get in.
I'm only offering once.
You know, you always were
one of the smart ones.
Okay,
what the fuck are you doing?
Give me the keys, Meredith.
- We're not leaving without--
- Give me the fucking keys now!
You know what?
It won't take much
to hold me over.
Just a sip or two.
Try it.
Go on, I'm begging you.
Oh, come on.
It's a win-win, right?
I feed, you get high.
Who knows?
You might even enjoy
being my little...
blood whore...
Mia, what the fuck?
Mia.
Mia, look at me.
It's okay.
You just attacked a Royal.
You won't get away with this,
either of you.
You're okay.
All right?
You're gonna be okay.
What happened?
Hey, where's Herk?
Mikhail caught him.
Mikhail's a Strigoi.
He's--he's--
Oh, fuck.
We need to go now.
Come on.
Shit. Stop.
Stop.
Mikhail?
Wait, Christian!
I don't know
how to control this!
Hey!
Figure something out,
or we're all fucked!
- Okay.
- Rose.
I'll distract him.
You get everyone to the car.
No, Rose, you can't!
What? I can help.
It's my team, my rules.
Please don't do this, Rose.
I'm trusting you, all of you.
Get to the car.
They come first.
Fucking go!
- Go, let's go, let's go.
Go, go, go.
I can't hold this much longer!
- Christian!
- Go!
Stop the bleeding,
then get him in the car.
Eddie, Meredith, come help me
set up the perimeter
until Rose catches up.
Christian!
If you see something, torch it.
Oh.
Hey, hey, hey. Dean.
Dean, look at me.
Dean. Fuck.
Mikhail?
He's gone.
No.
Mikhail.
He's gone.
No!
Rose. Roza.
Down this way.
Status?
All Moroi accounted for.
Two down--one Novice, Herk,
and Mikhail.
Whoever turned them
is still out there.
We'll fan out and find them.
- Let's move out.
- Get her home.
I was so worried.
- Oh, sore.
- Oh, sorry.
How are you feeling?
Like I've just had
1,000 people
trample over my corpse.
I'm fine.
Promise.
Okay.
So don't freak out.
That's, um... new.
I healed Dean, Rose.
There was so much blood,
and then...
and then
I just fucking healed him.
This is crazy.
I'm actually a Spirit User,
just like St. Vladimir.
And look.
You know
those traveling exhibits
from the museum
that only I go to?
There's this painting.
That's St. Vladimir
Compelling someone.
Think about what this means.
It means that you should
probably just take it easy.
Are you sure
this is a good thing?
Because I've been picking up
on some crazy emo vibes
from you lately.
Well, how could it not be?
Didn't St. Vladimir
live out his life in peace,
like, herding, like, sheep
or something?
There was that nursery rhyme.
Right?
It was like, "St. Vladimir"
something, something...
"To guide him in joy on a"...
both:
"Farm, with Anna beside him."
Yeah.
Vladimir was the founder
of our religion.
Some crazed emo guy
wouldn't be in marble
on every other pedestal.
If I can just talk to the guy
who owns the collection
from the museum,
maybe he could help me
fill in some of the blanks
about Spirit
and how St. Vladimir handled it
without losing his mind.
But I have to know.
Great.
So where is this mystery man?
In Lisbon,
on the Royal Tour.
It's voting families only.
How are you gonna
score an invite?
I don't like you
and you don't like me.
But I have to marry someone
with enough Dragomir blood
to get my quorum back.
And although this would
not be a real marriage,
I should be spending
some time with your parents
before we're
officially engaged.
They are going
on the Royal Tour, right?
Why would you say
such a thing?
I'm so sorry, Sonya.
No.
That's a lie.
She's lying.
Sonya...
It kills you to see me happy.
I'll go.
Sonya.
Sonya, wait.
Sonya. Sonya, please.
No, he can't be dead.
He can't.
- It'll be okay.
I promise.
No.
It won't be.
What are you doing?
- I won't lose you, too.
- Sonya, no.
I need to heal you, Daddy.
Fuck.
Rose.
How do you feel?
Like I killed
a piece of myself.
Like suddenly,
I'm beginning to wonder
if I even want to do this anymore.
I wish I could say
it gets easier, but--
But it fucking sucks?
But it fucking sucks.
I'm sorry
that Lissa got involved.
I'm supposed to prevent her
from getting into danger,
on shift or not.
My mind should have been on her
instead of...
Instead of what?
You,
and whether or not
you were safe.
Hey, Hathaway,
are you in here?
Hey.
How are you holding up?
I'd be a lot better if people
would stop asking me that.
Listen.
We lost one of our own.
I can't fucking begin to know
how to process that.
The thing I do know...
I don't want to be mad at you,
ever.
You're one of the only things
that makes this life
fucking bearable.
I know you're heading out
on the Royal Tour.
But when you get back...
I'll be here waiting
like I've always been.
A success?
You have the audacity
to call four wounded
and seven dead a success?
Seven dead,
including a Moroi guard
and a Dhampir Novice.
It may not be the result
we hoped for,
but it's certainly
the revelation we needed.
We are being hunted
by beings who wish nothing more
than to eradicate our kind.
Yes, seven lives
were sacrificed,
but that was the result
of one Strigoi, only one.
Now imagine a horde--
dozens coming after your wives
and your husbands
and your children.
We need
better-equipped guardians
if we are to survive
with the recent influx
of Strigoi attacks.
We are one
coordinated attack away
from being completely and utt--
Victor.
Over the past 24 hours,
I've done
a great deal of contemplation
regarding our future,
that of our children, and that
of our children's children.
The one thing
I keep coming back to
is that we deserve better.
Moroi and Dhampir alike,
we deserve a better future.
With no other candidate
capable of leading us there,
and after discussing it
with my family,
I've decided to fight for it.
I stand before you
to officially announce
my candidacy for Monarch.
There are things
I have to do for my family,
decisions I have to make.
But I just want you to know
it doesn't change how I feel
about you.
And it doesn't change
how much it meant to me
that you helped save Rose.
Why does it feel like
you're breaking up with me,
even though we're not together?
'Cause I want to be, Christian.
I want to be together.
And I'm so sorry.
I mean, I don't even know
how to tell you this.
Hey.
It's okay.
Whatever you have to do,
you do.
Okay?
* I, I ♪
♪ I don't want to live
without you ♪
♪ I don't want, I don't want,
I don't want, I don't want ♪
♪ I don't want to ♪
♪ I, I ♪
♪ I don't want to live
without you ♪
♪ I can see you
in the light so clear now ♪
♪ Trying to find a window
you can peer out ♪
♪ I can't keep on running ♪
♪ No, I can't
keep on running ♪
♪ No, I can't keep on
running ♪
♪ I know that you can't ♪
♪ Keep up this lie ♪
♪ I can't keep on looking
in the mirror ♪
♪ Knowing that I've been
running ♪
♪ Tell me
that you don't want to ♪
♪ You don't want to do ♪
♪ This to yourself ♪
♪ To yourself ♪
♪ Give up my will
and I'll give up my body ♪
♪ I don't know another way ♪
♪ Darling, don't you
try to save me ♪
♪ I'm falling ♪
♪ Give up my love,
don't listen to anybody ♪
* I don't wanna run away ♪
♪ Can you hear me
coming up here? ♪
♪ I'm coming out ♪
♪ Yeah, yeah ♪
♪ I'm falling down ♪
♪ I'm coming out ♪